frontend/README.md, before:

# Getting Started with the OpenHands Frontend

## Overview

This is the frontend of the OpenHands project. It is a React application that provides a web interface for the OpenHands project.

## Tech Stack

- Remix SPA Mode (React + Vite + React Router)
- TypeScript
- Redux
- TanStack Query
- Tailwind CSS
- i18next
- React Testing Library
- Vitest
- Mock Service Worker

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20.x or later
- `npm`, `bun`, or any other package manager that supports the `package.json` file

### Installation

```sh
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/All-Hands-AI/OpenHands.git

# Change the directory to the frontend
cd OpenHands/frontend

# Install the dependencies
npm install
```

### Running the Application in Development Mode

We use `msw` to mock the backend API. To start the application with the mocked backend, run the following command:

```sh
npm run dev
```

This will start the application in development mode. Open [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to view it in the browser.

**NOTE: The backend is _partially_ mocked using `msw`. Therefore, some features may not work as they would with the actual backend.**

### Running the Application with the Actual Backend (Production Mode)

There are two ways to run the application with the actual backend:

```sh
# Build the application from the root directory
make build

# Start the application
make start
```

OR

```sh
# Start the backend from the root directory
make start-backend

# Build the frontend
cd frontend && npm run build

# Serve the frontend
npm start -- --port 3001
```

### Environment Variables

TODO

### Project Structure

```sh
frontend
├── __tests__ # Tests
├── public
├── src
│   ├── api # API calls
│   ├── assets
│   ├── components
│   ├── context # Local state management
│   ├── hooks # Custom hooks
│   ├── i18n # Internationalization
│   ├── mocks # MSW mocks for development
│   ├── routes # React Router file-based routes
│   ├── services
│   ├── state # Redux state management
│   ├── types
│   ├── utils # Utility/helper functions
│   └── root.tsx # Entry point
└── .env.sample # Sample environment variables
```

#### Components

Components are organized into folders based on their **domain**, **feature**, or **shared functionality**.

```sh
components
├── features # Domain-specific components
├── layout
├── modals
└── ui # Shared UI components
```

### Features

- Real-time updates with WebSockets
- Internationalization
- Router data loading with Remix
- User authentication with GitHub OAuth (if saas mode is enabled)

## Testing

We use `Vitest` for testing. To run the tests, run the following command:

```sh
npm run test
```

## Contributing

Please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md) file for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Troubleshooting

TODO

Commit message:

Documentation: Enhance repository documentation with comprehensive architecture and development guides
- Add central documentation hub (DOCUMENTATION.md)
- Create detailed architecture documentation for all components
- Add development guides for contribution and feature development
- Create glossary of codebase-specific terms
- Update component README files with cross-references
- Update sidebar configuration for documentation website

This comprehensive documentation enhancement makes it easier to understand
and enhance the OpenHands codebase by providing clear, structured documentation
for all major components and development workflows.

Co-Authored-By: Abdul Jaleel Kavungal <jbkavungal@gmail.com>

frontend/README.md, after:

# Getting Started with the OpenHands Frontend

## Overview

This is the frontend of the OpenHands project. It is a React application that provides a web interface for the OpenHands project.

For comprehensive documentation on the frontend architecture and components, please refer to:
- [Frontend Architecture](../docs/modules/usage/architecture/frontend.md)
- [Architecture Overview](../docs/modules/usage/architecture/overview.md)

The central [Documentation Hub](../DOCUMENTATION.md) provides a complete index of all documentation resources.

## Tech Stack

- Remix SPA Mode (React + Vite + React Router)
- TypeScript
- Redux
- TanStack Query
- Tailwind CSS
- i18next
- React Testing Library
- Vitest
- Mock Service Worker

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20.x or later
- `npm`, `bun`, or any other package manager that supports the `package.json` file

### Installation

```sh
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/All-Hands-AI/OpenHands.git

# Change the directory to the frontend
cd OpenHands/frontend

# Install the dependencies
npm install
```

### Running the Application in Development Mode

We use `msw` to mock the backend API. To start the application with the mocked backend, run the following command:

```sh
npm run dev
```

This will start the application in development mode. Open [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to view it in the browser.

**NOTE: The backend is _partially_ mocked using `msw`. Therefore, some features may not work as they would with the actual backend.**

### Running the Application with the Actual Backend (Production Mode)

There are two ways to run the application with the actual backend:

```sh
# Build the application from the root directory
make build

# Start the application
make start
```

OR

```sh
# Start the backend from the root directory
make start-backend

# Build the frontend
cd frontend && npm run build

# Serve the frontend
npm start -- --port 3001
```

### Environment Variables

TODO

### Project Structure

```sh
frontend
├── __tests__ # Tests
├── public
├── src
│   ├── api # API calls
│   ├── assets
│   ├── components
│   ├── context # Local state management
│   ├── hooks # Custom hooks
│   ├── i18n # Internationalization
│   ├── mocks # MSW mocks for development
│   ├── routes # React Router file-based routes
│   ├── services
│   ├── state # Redux state management
│   ├── types
│   ├── utils # Utility/helper functions
│   └── root.tsx # Entry point
└── .env.sample # Sample environment variables
```

#### Components

Components are organized into folders based on their **domain**, **feature**, or **shared functionality**.

```sh
components
├── features # Domain-specific components
├── layout
├── modals
└── ui # Shared UI components
```

### Features

- Real-time updates with WebSockets
- Internationalization
- Router data loading with Remix
- User authentication with GitHub OAuth (if saas mode is enabled)

## Testing

We use `Vitest` for testing. To run the tests, run the following command:

```sh
npm run test
```

## Contributing

Please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md) file for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Troubleshooting

TODO
